The Jaunt Chapter 1
"This is the last call for Jaunt-701," the pleasant female voice echoed through 
the Blue course of New York's Port Authority Terminal. The PAT had not ged mu 
the last three hundred years or so - it was still gungy and a little frightening.
The automated female voice robably the most plesant thing about it. "This is 
Jaunt Service to Whitehead City, Mars," the voice tinued. "All ticketed 
passengers should now be in the Blue course sleep lounge. Make sure your 
validation papers are in order. Thank you."The upstairs lounge was not at all 
grungy. It was wall-to-wall carpeted in oyster gray. The walls were an eggshell
white and hung with plesant nonrepresentational prints. A steady, soothing 
progression of et and swirled on the ceiling. There were one hundred couches 
in the large room, ly spaced in rows of ten. Five Jaunt attendants circulate, 
speakingin low, cherry voices and  glasses of milk. At one side of the room 
was the entranceway, flanked by armed guards and another Jaunt attendant who 
was cheg the validation papers of a lateer, a harried-looking businessman 
with the New York World Times folded under one arm. Directly opposite, the 
floor dropped away in a trough about five feet wide and perhaps te long; it 
passed through a doorless opening and looked a bit like a child's slide. The 
Oates family lay side by side on four Jaunt couches he far end ofthe room. 
Mark Oates and his wife, Marilys, flahe two children. "Daddy, will you tell 
me about the Jaunt now?" Ricky asked. "You promised." "Yeah, Dad, you promised,"
Patricia added, and giggled shilly for no good reason. A Businessman with a 
build like a bull glanced over at them a back to the fodder of papers he was 
examining as he lay on his back, his spit-shined shoes ly together.
From everywhere came the low murmur of versation and the rustle of passengers 
settling down on the Jaunt couches. Mark glanced over at Marilys Oates and 
winked. She winked back, but she was almost as nervous as Patty sounded. 
Why not? Mark thought. First Jaunt for all three of them. He and Marilys had 
discussed the advantages and drawbaoving the whole family for the last six months
- since he'd gotten notification from Texaco Water that he was being transferred
to Whitehead City. Finally they had decided that all of them would go for the two
years Mark would be stationed on Mars. He wondered now, looking at Marilys's pale
face, if she was regretting the decision. He gla his watd saw it was still almost 
half an hour to Jaunt-time. That was enough time to tell the story ... and he 
supposed it would take the kids' minds off their nervousness. Who knew, maybe it 
would even arilys out a little. "All right," he said. Ricky and Pat were watg him
seriously, his son twelve, his daughter nine. He told himself again that Ricky 
would be deep in the s of puberty and his daughter would likely be developing 
breast by the time they got back to earth, and again found it difficult to believe.
The kids would be going to the tiny Whitehead bined School with the hundred-odd 
engineering and oil-pany brats that were there; his son might well be going on a 
geology field trip to Phobos not so many months distant. It was difficult to believe 
... but true. Who knows ? he thought wryly. maybe it'll do something about my 
Jaunt-jumps, too. "So far as we know," he began, "the Jaunt was ied about three 
hundred and twenty years ago, around the year 1987, by a fellow named Victor e. 
He did it as part of a private research project that was funded by some gover 
money ... aually the goverook it over, of course. In the end it came down to 
either the gover or the oil pahe reason we don't know the exact date is because 
was something of an etric - " "You mean he was crazy, Dad?" Ricky asked. 
"Etric means a little bit crazy, dear," Marilys said, and smiled across the 
children at Mark. She looked a little less nervous now, he thought."Oh." 
"Anyway, he'd been experimenting with the process for quite some time before 
the informed the gover of what he had," Mark went on, "and he only told them 
because he was running out of money and they weren't going to re-fund him." 
"Your money cheerfully refunded," Pat said, and giggled shrilly again.
"That's right, honey," Mark said, and ruffled her hair gently. At the far end of 
the room he saw a door slide noiselessly open and two more attendants came out, 
dressed in the bright red jumpers of the Jaunt Service, pushing a rolling table. 
On it was a stainless-steel nozzle attached to a rubber hose; beh the table's 
skirts, tastefully hidden, Mark khere were two bottles of gas; i bag hooked to 
the side were one hundred disposable masks. Mark went on talking, not wanting 
his people to see the representative of Lethe until they had to. And, if he was 
given enough time to tell the whole story, they would wele the gas-passers with 
open arms. 
"Of course, you know that the Jaunt is teleportation, no more or less," he said. 
"Sometimes in college chemistry and physics they call it the e Process, but it's 
really teleportation, and it was e himself - if you  believe the stories - who  ?
the Jaunt.' He was a sce-fi reader, and there's a story by a man named Alfred 
Bester, The Stars My Destination it's called, and this fellow Bester made up 
the word ?jaunte' for teleportation in it. Except in his book, you could Jaunt 
just by thinking about it, and we 't really do that." The attendants were fixing 
a mask to the steel nozzle and handing it to an elderly woman at the far end of 
the room. She took it, inhaled once, and fell quiet and limp on her couch. Her 
shirt had pulled up a little, revealing one slack thigh road-mapped with varicose 
veins. An attendant siderately readjusted for her while the other pulled off the 
used mask and affixed a fresh o rocess that made Mark think of the plastic glasses 
in motel rooms.
He wished to God that Patty would cool out a little bit; he had seen children who 
had to be held down, and sometimes they screamed as the rubber mask covered their 
faces. It was not an abnormal rea in a child, he supposed, but it was nasty to 
watd he didn't want to see it happen to Patty. About Rick he felt more fident.
"I guess you could say the Jaunt came along at the last possible moment," he resumed. 
He spoke toward Ricky, but reached across and took his daughter's hand. Her palm was 
cool and sweating lightly. "The world was running out of oil, and most of what was 
left beloo the middle-easter peoples, who were itted to using it as a political on. 
They had formed an oil cartel they called OPEC - " "What's a cartel, Daddy?" Patty 
asked.
"Well, a monopoly," Mark said.
"Like a club, honey," Marilys said. "And you could only be in that club if you had 
lots of oil."
"Oh."
"I don't have time to sketch the whole mess in for you," Mark said.  "You'll 
study some of it in school, but it was a mess - let's let it go at that. If you 
owned a car, you could only drive it two days a week, and gasoline cost fifteen 
oldbucks a gallon - " "Gosh," Ricky said, "it only costs four ts or so a gallon 
now, doesn't it, Dad?"
Mark smiled. "That's why we are going where we&#oing, Rick. There's enough oil 
on Mars to last almost eight thousand years, and enough on Venus to last awenty 
thousand ... but oil isn't even important, anymore. Now what we need most of all 
is - " "Water!" Patty cried, and the Businessman looked up from his papers and smiled at her for a moment.
